Software_Carbon_Intensity/Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md, before:

## Scope

```
Define as it relates to Green Software Foundation Activity. If it adds clarity, define what is not in the scope. DELETE THIS COMMENT 
```

## References
### Normative References

```
The policy for reference lists is:
1. GSF documents listed should have at least one approved version – draft-only docs should not be referenced.
An exception exists for documents approved with or after the referenced doc is approved (maybe part of the same enabler package). In short – approved docs should not reference unapproved docs.
2. The name + version (no date) for GSF specifications are generally sufficient – dates should be used only if there is a specific reason to limit the usage.
3. References to other affiliate docs should similarly provide sufficient information to uniquely determine the needed document and should provide the appropriate source information.
4. The URL for GSF material (new GSF and affiliate) should always be http://www.greensoftware.foundation
    
Models to use:
	[REFLABEL]	<General Model> "Ref Title", Ref information (source, date, id), URL:http//<ref-source>/ 
	[GSFDOC]	<GSF Model> "GSF Document Title",{ Version x.y,} Green Software Foundation™, GSF <docname>{    <version>}, URL:http//www.openmobilealliance.org/ 

If there are no entries in the table – enter 'none' to be precise.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```
<table>
  <caption>Normative References </caption>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>[RFC2119]</strong></td>
      <td>"Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", S. Bradner, March 1997, URL:http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>[RFC5234]</strong></td>
      <td>"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF", D. Crocker, Ed., P. Overell, Janury 2008, URL: https://tools.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5234.txt</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

```
Add/Remove reference rows as needed - DELETE This Row 
```

### Informative References

```
Check the version of the Dictionary you are using and update the reference below. Delete the [GSFDICT] entry if the Dictionary is not used. In general, use the latest
available version unless seeking alignment with an existing set of specifications.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```
<table>
  <caption>Informative References </caption>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>[GSFDICT]</strong></td>
      <td>"Dictionary for GSF Specifications", Version x.y, Green Software Foundation™, GSF-ORG-Dictionary-Vx_y, URL:http://greensoftware.foundation/</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

```
Add/Remove references as needed - DELETE This Row
```

## Terminology and Conventions
### Conventions

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

All sections and appendixes, except "Scope" and "Introduction", are normative unless they are explicitly indicated to be informative.

```
If needed, describe or declare using appropriate normative references the additional conventions that are used. DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

### Definitions

```
Add definitions in new rows of the following table as needed. The following examples show how dictionary references should be made as well as locally defined terms. This table should be maintained in sorted alphabetic order based on the labels of the terms.

Examples:
	Entity              Use definition #1 from [GSFDICT]
	Interactive Service Use definition from [GSFDICT]
	Local Term          The definition description would be presented directly

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```
<table>
  <caption>Definitions</caption>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
	<td><strong>Definition-1</strong></td>
	<td>Description definition-1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
	<td><strong>Definition-2</strong></td>
	<td>Description definition-2</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

```
Add/Remove definition rows as needed - DELETE This Row
```

Kindly consult [GSFDICT] for more definitions used in this document.

### Abbreviations

```
Add abbreviations as needed. No special notation should be made regarding terms copied from the Dictionary.  
The list should be maintained in alphabetic order. DELETE This Row
```

<table>
<caption>Definitions</caption>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>GSF</td>
    <td>Green Software Foundation</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Introduction

* **What can you do with this specification?**

The purpose of this specification will be to enable standardization across industry empowering individuals and organizations to make more informed choices in the software solutions that they pick.

* **What problem does this solve?**

This solves the problem of incompatible and opaque metrics that are potentially _gameable_ today making it difficult for the end-consumer to make a choice that is aligned with what they are looking for in terms of meeting their environmental goals when purchasing / using software solutions. It will also help developers and users compare one software solution offering against another on environmental impacts.

* **How can this specification be applied?**

The specification can be applied to any software to measure and reduce its carbon emissions by creating a standardized and practical methodology. 

* **Who is the target audience?** 

The target audience for this are software architects, developers and maintainers who ideally can use this as a tool where they can enter characterisitics about their software solution and get a score that they can share with their customers highlighting the environmental impact of their solution.

### Version 1.0

```
This section provides a high level, concise and informative description of the main functionality supported in the initial version of the specification. The description should be brief; the target length should be a few paragraphs. 
When the enabler or reference release is finished, this description should be aligned with the final functionality. 

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

### Version (x.y)

```
This section should be included for each new major or minor version of the specification.

It should provide a high level, concise and informative description of the new or modified functionality introduced in this version of the specification, compared to the previous version. The description should be brief, and the target length should be a few paragraphs. When the enabler or reference release is finished, this description should be 
aligned with the final functionality differences.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

#### Version (x.y.z)

```
Service indicator (z) for the document. It is incremented every time a corrective update is made to the approved document version by the WG. This section should describe the main changes made to the specification at a high level compared to the previous version. The description should be brief, and the target length should be one paragraph.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

## Sections As Needed

```
Sections for the normative specification text. Fill in as needed. The following validates the styles used for the headers. DELETE THIS COMMENT 
```

### Example Level 2
(Add text here.)

#### Example Level 3
(Add text here.)

##### Example Level 4
(Add text here.)

<figure>
	<img src="images/governance.svg" alt="GSF governance">
	<figcaption>GSF governance</figcaption> 
</figure>	


<table>
  <caption>Example Table</caption>
  <thead>
      <tr>
	  <th>Item</th>
	  <th>Function</th>
	  <th>Reference</th>
      </tr>	      
  </thead>	    
  <tbody>
    <tr>
	<td>Row 1</td>
	<td>Grid 1,1 data</td>
	<td>Grid 1,2 data</td>	    
    </tr>
    <tr>
	<td>Row 2</td>
	<td>Grid 2,1 data</td>
	<td>Grid 2,2 data</td>	    
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Appendix Change History (Informative)

### Approved Version x.y History

<table>
    <caption>Approved Version x.y History</caption>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Reference</th>
            <th>Date</th>
            <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>    
        <tr>
            <td>n/a</td>
            <td>n/a</td>
            <td>No prior version</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

clarified to align with previous changes

Software_Carbon_Intensity/Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md, after:

## Scope

```
Define as it relates to Green Software Foundation Activity. If it adds clarity, define what is not in the scope. DELETE THIS COMMENT 
```

## References
### Normative References

```
The policy for reference lists is:
1. GSF documents listed should have at least one approved version – draft-only docs should not be referenced.
An exception exists for documents approved with or after the referenced doc is approved (maybe part of the same enabler package). In short – approved docs should not reference unapproved docs.
2. The name + version (no date) for GSF specifications are generally sufficient – dates should be used only if there is a specific reason to limit the usage.
3. References to other affiliate docs should similarly provide sufficient information to uniquely determine the needed document and should provide the appropriate source information.
4. The URL for GSF material (new GSF and affiliate) should always be http://www.greensoftware.foundation
    
Models to use:
	[REFLABEL]	<General Model> "Ref Title", Ref information (source, date, id), URL:http//<ref-source>/ 
	[GSFDOC]	<GSF Model> "GSF Document Title",{ Version x.y,} Green Software Foundation™, GSF <docname>{    <version>}, URL:http//www.openmobilealliance.org/ 

If there are no entries in the table – enter 'none' to be precise.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```
<table>
  <caption>Normative References </caption>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>[RFC2119]</strong></td>
      <td>"Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", S. Bradner, March 1997, URL:http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>[RFC5234]</strong></td>
      <td>"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF", D. Crocker, Ed., P. Overell, Janury 2008, URL: https://tools.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5234.txt</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

```
Add/Remove reference rows as needed - DELETE This Row 
```

### Informative References

```
Check the version of the Dictionary you are using and update the reference below. Delete the [GSFDICT] entry if the Dictionary is not used. In general, use the latest
available version unless seeking alignment with an existing set of specifications.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```
<table>
  <caption>Informative References </caption>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><strong>[GSFDICT]</strong></td>
      <td>"Dictionary for GSF Specifications", Version x.y, Green Software Foundation™, GSF-ORG-Dictionary-Vx_y, URL:http://greensoftware.foundation/</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

```
Add/Remove references as needed - DELETE This Row
```

## Terminology and Conventions
### Conventions

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

All sections and appendixes, except "Scope" and "Introduction", are normative unless they are explicitly indicated to be informative.

```
If needed, describe or declare using appropriate normative references the additional conventions that are used. DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

### Definitions

```
Add definitions in new rows of the following table as needed. The following examples show how dictionary references should be made as well as locally defined terms. This table should be maintained in sorted alphabetic order based on the labels of the terms.

Examples:
	Entity              Use definition #1 from [GSFDICT]
	Interactive Service Use definition from [GSFDICT]
	Local Term          The definition description would be presented directly

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```
<table>
  <caption>Definitions</caption>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
	<td><strong>Definition-1</strong></td>
	<td>Description definition-1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
	<td><strong>Definition-2</strong></td>
	<td>Description definition-2</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

```
Add/Remove definition rows as needed - DELETE This Row
```

Kindly consult [GSFDICT] for more definitions used in this document.

### Abbreviations

```
Add abbreviations as needed. No special notation should be made regarding terms copied from the Dictionary.  
The list should be maintained in alphabetic order. DELETE This Row
```

<table>
<caption>Definitions</caption>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>GSF</td>
    <td>Green Software Foundation</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Introduction

* **What can you do with this specification?**

The purpose of this specification will be to enable standardization across industry empowering individuals and organizations to make more informed choices in the software solutions that they pick.

* **What problem does this solve?**

This solves the problem of incompatible and opaque metrics that are potentially _gameable_ today making it difficult for the end-consumer to make a choice that is aligned with what they are looking for in terms of meeting their environmental goals when purchasing / using software solutions. It will also help developers and users compare one software solution offering against another on environmental impacts.

* **How can this specification be applied?**

The specification can be applied to any software to measure and reduce its carbon emissions by creating a standardized and practical methodology. 

* **Who is the target audience?** 

The target audience for this are technical stakeholders (e.g. software architects, developers, and maintainers) who ideally can use this as a methodology so that they can understand the characteristics of their software solution and minimize the associated emissions.

### Version 1.0

```
This section provides a high level, concise and informative description of the main functionality supported in the initial version of the specification. The description should be brief; the target length should be a few paragraphs. 
When the enabler or reference release is finished, this description should be aligned with the final functionality. 

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

### Version (x.y)

```
This section should be included for each new major or minor version of the specification.

It should provide a high level, concise and informative description of the new or modified functionality introduced in this version of the specification, compared to the previous version. The description should be brief, and the target length should be a few paragraphs. When the enabler or reference release is finished, this description should be 
aligned with the final functionality differences.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

#### Version (x.y.z)

```
Service indicator (z) for the document. It is incremented every time a corrective update is made to the approved document version by the WG. This section should describe the main changes made to the specification at a high level compared to the previous version. The description should be brief, and the target length should be one paragraph.

DELETE THIS COMMENT
```

## Sections As Needed

```
Sections for the normative specification text. Fill in as needed. The following validates the styles used for the headers. DELETE THIS COMMENT 
```

### Example Level 2
(Add text here.)

#### Example Level 3
(Add text here.)

##### Example Level 4
(Add text here.)

<figure>
	<img src="images/governance.svg" alt="GSF governance">
	<figcaption>GSF governance</figcaption> 
</figure>	


<table>
  <caption>Example Table</caption>
  <thead>
      <tr>
	  <th>Item</th>
	  <th>Function</th>
	  <th>Reference</th>
      </tr>	      
  </thead>	    
  <tbody>
    <tr>
	<td>Row 1</td>
	<td>Grid 1,1 data</td>
	<td>Grid 1,2 data</td>	    
    </tr>
    <tr>
	<td>Row 2</td>
	<td>Grid 2,1 data</td>
	<td>Grid 2,2 data</td>	    
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Appendix Change History (Informative)

### Approved Version x.y History

<table>
    <caption>Approved Version x.y History</caption>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Reference</th>
            <th>Date</th>
            <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>    
        <tr>
            <td>n/a</td>
            <td>n/a</td>
            <td>No prior version</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
